The ambushed accord - New coop scenario (#369)
qwrtln/Homm3BG-mission-book: draft-scenarios/coops/the_ambushed_accord.tex

% !TeX spellcheck = en_US
\addscenariosection{1}{Cooperative Scenario}{The Ambushed Accord}{\images/earth_magic.png}

\begin{multicols}{2}

\textbf{Author:} Wololoeren

\textit{The war had dragged on far too long. Armies were shattered, lands burned, and hope had dwindled to barely a whisper. At last, the rival lords agreed to set aside their grievances and forge an Accord — a fragile peace born of desperation.\\
Messengers rode beneath white banners, oaths were sworn, and for the first time in years, the clash of steel gave way to uneasy silence. Yet peace has its own enemies.\\
As the allied hosts gathered in the valley of Laren's Cross, dawn broke with the sound of horns — not of welcome, but of war.\\
Out of the mist, enemy armies struck with deadly precision. Someone had betrayed the Accord.\\Now, surrounded and outnumbered, the fate of your alliance lies in your hands. Stand together — or fall alone.}  % no-check-caps
\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Scenario Length}}
14 Rounds

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Player Setup}}
\textbf{Player Count:} 2-6

> \textbf{Starting Resources:} 2 \svg{gold}, 3 \svg{building_materials}, 1 \svg{valuables}

Author: Yep it is very intentionally.

\end{itemize}
End of \textbf{\nth{4} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item \textbf{one player} must fight a \textbf{Timed Event Fight} of 5 × \svg{bronze}.
\end{itemize}
End of \textbf{\nth{8} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item \textbf{one player} must fight a \textbf{Timed Event Fight} of 4 × \svg{silver}
\end{itemize}
End of \textbf{\nth{10} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item \textbf{one player} must fight a \textbf{Timed Event Fight} of 3 × \svg{golden}.
\end{itemize}
End of \textbf{\nth{12} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item \textbf{one player} must fight a \textbf{Timed Event Fight} of 2 × \svg{azure}.
\end{itemize}
\clearpage

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Additional Rules}}
\hommtablemulticol[]{21}{
  \centering
  \medskip
  \textbf{Difficutly Settings}\\
  \bigskip
  \begin{tabularx}{0.93\linewidth}{p{0.28\linewidth}X}
    \darkcell[1.6]{Difficulty} & \darkcell[1.6]{Changes to Timed Event Fights} \\
    \darkcell[1.6]{Easy}
    & \lightcell[1.6]{Remove a Unit from each fight.} \\
    \darkcell[2.2]{Hard}
    & \lightcell[2.2]{Add an Initiative Stack Token to a random Unit of the fights on Rounds 4, 8 and 10.} \\
    \darkcell[1.8]{Impossible}

>     & \lightcell[1.8]{Add two random Stack Token to two Units of all fights.} \\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    & \lightcell[1.8]{Add two random Stack Tokens to two Units in all fights.} \\
```

% !TeX spellcheck = en_US
\addscenariosection{1}{Cooperative Scenario}{The Ambushed Accord}{\images/the_ambushed_accord_banner.png}

\begin{multicols}{2}

\textbf{Author:} Wololoeren

> \textit{The war had dragged on far too long. Armies were shattered, lands burned, and hope had thinned to a whisper. At last, the rival lords agreed to set aside their grievances and forge an Accord — a fragile peace born of desperation.\\Messengers rode beneath white banners, oaths were sworn, and for the first time in years, the clash of steel gave way to uneasy silence. Yet peace has its own enemies.\\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\textit{The war had dragged on far too long. Armies were shattered, lands burned, and hope had dwindled to barely a whisper. At last, the rival lords agreed to set aside their grievances and forge an Accord — a fragile peace born of desperation.\\
Messengers rode beneath white banners, oaths were sworn, and for the first time in years, the clash of steel gave way to uneasy silence. Yet peace has its own enemies.\\
```

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Scenario Length}}
14 Rounds

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Player Setup}}
\textbf{Player Count:} 2-6

\textbf{Starting Resources:} 2 \svg{gold}, 3 \svg{building_materials}, 1 \svg{valuables}

\textbf{Starting Income:} 10 \svg{gold}, 0 \svg{building_materials}, 0 \svg{valuables}

\textbf{Starting Units:}

\begin{itemize}
  \item 2 × Search (2) the \svg{bronze} Neutral Deck.
\end{itemize}

\textbf{Town Buildings:} City Hall.

\textbf{Map Tile Pool:} Each player takes 2 random Far (II-III) Map Tiles and 2 random Near (IV-V) Map Tiles.

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Map Setup}}
Take the following Map Tiles ($P$ stands for the number of players) and arrange them as shown in the Scenario map layout:

\begin{itemize}
  \item $P$ × Starting (I) Map Tiles
  \item 1 × Center (VI–VII) Map Tile
\end{itemize}

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Victory Conditions}}
All players must defeat the Level VII Neutral Combat.

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Timed Events}}
\textbf{\nth{2} Round:}
\begin{itemize}

>   \item Build either Camp (\svg{building_special_tent}) or Workshop (Gears) for free.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  \item Build either \svg{building_special_tent} or \svg{bulding_special_gears} for free.
```
There are no game terms for those buildings, so let's leave them as icons.

\end{itemize}
\textbf{\nth{4} Round:}
\begin{itemize}

>   \item At the end of Round 4 \textbf{*One*} player must fight a Timed Event Fight (TEF) of 5x\svg{bronze}.

Reviewer: \item \textbf{One} player must fight a Timed Event Fight (TEF) of 5x\svg{bronze}.

\end{itemize}

> \textbf{\nth{8} Round:}

Reviewer: End of \textbf{\nth{8} Round:}

\begin{itemize}
  \item  At the end of Round 8 \textbf{*One*} player must fight a TEF of 4x\svg{silver}
\end{itemize}
\textbf{\nth{10} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item  At the end of Round 10 \textbf{*One*} player must fight a TEF of 3x\svg{golden}.
\end{itemize}
\textbf{\nth{12} Round:}
\begin{itemize}

>   \item  At the end of Round 12 \textbf{*One*} player must fight a TEF of 2x\svg{azure}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  \item \textbf{One} player must fight a TEF of 2 × \svg{azure}.
```

\end{itemize}
\clearpage

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Additional Rules}}
\subsubsection*{\MakeUppercase{Difficulty Settings}}
\textbf{Easy:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item Remove a Unit from each Timed Event Fight.
\end{itemize}
\textbf{Hard:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item Add a initiative stack token to a random Unit of the TEFs on Round 4, 8 and 10.
\end{itemize}
\textbf{Impossible:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item Add two random stack token to two Units of all TEF fights.

> \end{itemize}

Reviewer 2: What about normal? We usually have tables for rulings like that.

Reviewer 2: <img width="1164" height="1460" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7ce4d065-c3af-49b9-9c52-c5b7fade3bbe" />

%\columnbreak

\subsubsection*{\MakeUppercase{Timed Event Fights}}
\begin{itemize}
  \item Collaboratively pay $P$ × 5 \svg{gold}, $P$ × 3 \svg{building_materials} and P×1 \svg{valuables} to reveal the Center Map Tile ($P$ stands for the number of players), e.g., 4 players must pay 20 \svg{gold}, 12 \svg{building_materials}, and 4 \svg{valuables}.
  \item For less than 4 players only \textbf{*One*} player need to fight the TEF. The players may decide which eligible players will fight.
  \item For 4 or more players \textbf{*Two*} players must fight a TEF each when the event occur.

>   \item Players are NOT eligible to fight a TEF if they already \textbf{won} more TEF than another player or have no Units.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  \item Players are not eligible to fight a Timed Event Fight if they have already won more Timed Event Fights than another player, or if they have no Units.
```

  \item Defeating a TEF grants a permanent +1 \svg{movement} to your main Hero.

>   \item If a player is defeated in a TEF their Hero is sent back to their town with no Units, the remaining TEF Units must be defeated by another player if no player is eligible to fight they all loose the Scenario.

Reviewer 2: I take it there's no retreating?

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Scenario Length}}
14 Rounds

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Player Setup}}
\textbf{Player Count:} 2-6

\textbf{Starting Resources:} 2 \svg{gold}, 3 \svg{building_materials}, 1 \svg{valuables}

\textbf{Starting Income:} 10 \svg{gold}, 0 \svg{building_materials}, 0 \svg{valuables}

\textbf{Starting Units:}

\begin{itemize}
  \item 2 × Search (2) the \svg{bronze} Neutral Deck.
\end{itemize}

\textbf{Town Buildings:} City-Hall.

\textbf{Map Tile Pool:} Each player takes 2 random Far (II-III) Map Tiles and 2 random Near (IV-V) Map Tiles.

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Map Setup}}
Take the following Map Tiles ($P$ stands for the number of players) and arrange them as shown in the Scenario map layout:

\begin{itemize}
  \item $P$ × Starting (I) Map Tiles
  \item 1 × Center (VI–VII) Map Tile with Dragon Utopia
\end{itemize}

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Victory Conditions}}
All players must defeat the Level VII Neutral Combat.

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Timed Events}}
\textbf{\nth{2} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item Build either Camp (\svg{building_special_tent}) or Workshop (Gears) for free.
\end{itemize}
\textbf{\nth{4} Round:}
\begin{itemize}

>   \item At the end of Round 4 \textbf{*One*} player must fight a Timed Event Fight (TEF) of 5x\svg{bronze}.

Reviewer: ![Screenshot_20251110-000417](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/eec7ef9d-5fec-4595-9a6e-743edc163500)
or like this.

\end{itemize}
\textbf{\nth{8} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item  At the end of Round 8 \textbf{*One*} player must fight a TEF of 4x\svg{silver}
\end{itemize}
\textbf{\nth{10} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item  At the end of Round 10 \textbf{*One*} player must fight a TEF of 3x\svg{golden}.
\end{itemize}
\textbf{\nth{12} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item  At the end of Round 12 \textbf{*One*} player must fight a TEF of 2x\svg{azure}.
\end{itemize}

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Additional Rules}}
\subsubsection*{\MakeUppercase{Difficulty Settings}}
\textbf{Easy:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item Remove a Unit from each Timed Event Fight.
\end{itemize}
\textbf{Hard:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item Add a initiative stack token to a random Unit of the TEFs on Round 4, 8 and 10.
\end{itemize}
\textbf{Impossible:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item Add two random stack token to two Units of all TEF fights.
\end{itemize}
%\columnbreak

\subsubsection*{\MakeUppercase{Timed Event Fights}}
\begin{itemize}

>   \item Collaboratively pay P×5 \svg{gold}, P×3 \svg{building_materials} and P×1 \svg{valuables} to reveal the Center Map Tile(P is number of players). e.g.: 4 Players must pay 20\svg{gold}, 12\svg{building_materials}, 4\svg{valuables}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  \item Collaboratively pay $P$ × 5 \svg{gold}, $P$ × 3 \svg{building_materials} and P×1 \svg{valuables} to reveal the Center Map Tile ($P$ stands for the number of players), e.g., 4 players must pay 20 \svg{gold}, 12 \svg{building_materials}, and 4 \svg{valuables}.
```

Author: outdated, is resolved.

  \item Players are NOT eligible to fight a TEF if they already \textbf{won} more TEF than another player or have no units.
  \item Defeating a TEF grants a permanent +1 \svg{movement} to your main hero.
  \item If a player is defeated in a TEF their hero is sent back to their town with no units, the remaining TEF units must be defeated by another player if no player is eligible to fight they all loose the scenario.
\end{itemize}

\subsubsection*{\MakeUppercase{Other Rules}}
\begin{itemize}
	\item At the end of every round players must decide one player who get a free Positive morale token.
	\item Players may exchange artifacts and spells from their hands and units and resources if their main heroes are standing on adjacent fields or both are standing in their own town.
	\item Once a player defeats the level 7 center-tile field their Heroes are removed from the board and they cannot fight TEF, and are no longer being considered for TEF eligibility.
\end{itemize}
\end{multicols}
\begin{tikzpicture}[overlay]
  \node(bg)[anchor=center, opacity=0.07, xshift=-3em, yshift=-17em] at (current page.south) {
    \includegraphics[width=0.85\paperwidth, keepaspectratio]{\art/fireball.png}

>   };

Author: outdated, is resolved.

Out of the mist, enemy armies struck with deadly precision. Someone had betrayed the Accord.\\Now, surrounded and outnumbered, the fate of your alliance lies in your hands. Stand together — or fall alone.}  % no-check-caps
\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Scenario Length}}
14 Rounds

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Player Setup}}
\textbf{Player Count:} 2-6

\textbf{Starting Resources:} 2 \svg{gold}, 3 \svg{building_materials}, 1 \svg{valuables}

\textbf{Starting Income:} 10 \svg{gold}, 0 \svg{building_materials}, 0 \svg{valuables}

\textbf{Starting Units:}

\begin{itemize}
  \item 2 × Search (2) the \svg{bronze} Neutral Deck and 1 x \svg{morale_positive}
\end{itemize}

\textbf{Town Buildings:} City Hall

\textbf{Map Tile Pool:} Every player takes 2 random Far (II-III) Map Tiles and 2 random Near (IV-V) Map Tiles.

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Map Setup}}
Take the following Map Tiles ($P$ stands for the number of players) and arrange them as shown in the Scenario map layout:

\begin{itemize}
  \item $P$ × Starting (I) Map Tiles
  \item 1 × Center (VI–VII) Map Tile
\end{itemize}

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Victory Conditions}}

> Every player must defeat the Level VII Neutral Combat.

Reviewer 2: This wording doesn't make sense in English. You cannot defeat "combat". Defeat is a transitive verb which needs something specific, not the fight itself. You defeat an opponent, not a fight against an opponent. You can win combat or defeat opponents in combat.

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Timed Events}}
\textbf{\nth{2} Round:}
\begin{itemize}

>   \item Build either Camp \svg{building_special_tent} or Workshop \svg{building_special_gears} for free. %(\svg{bulding_special_gears})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  \item Build either \svg{building_special_tent} or \svg{building_special_gears} for free.
```
Neither Camp nor Workshop are game terms. The only thing officially defined is a "Faction-specific building". That's a mouthful, therefore we use the glyphs instead.

\end{itemize}
End of \textbf{\nth{4} Round:}
\begin{itemize}

>   \item \textbf{one player} must fight a \textbf{Timed Event Fight} of 5 × \svg{bronze}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\textbf{End of \nth{4} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item \textbf{One player} must fight a Timed Event Fight of 5~×~\svg{bronze}.
```
I'd suggest using the bold font for the line with round number, like the rest of scenarios do. In the timed event itself, it should be used more sparing. See comparison:

<img width="2062" height="242" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/90dbc8a4-985b-4dfc-a837-2692db1f4671" />

\end{itemize}
End of \textbf{\nth{7} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item \textbf{one player} must fight a \textbf{Timed Event Fight} of 4 × \svg{silver}
\end{itemize}
End of \textbf{\nth{9} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item \textbf{one player} must fight a \textbf{Timed Event Fight} of 3 × \svg{golden}.
\end{itemize}
End of \textbf{\nth{11} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item \textbf{one player} must fight a \textbf{Timed Event Fight} of 2 × \svg{azure}.
\end{itemize}
End of \textbf{\nth{13} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item \textbf{one player} must fight a \textbf{Timed Event Fight} of 3 × \svg{azure}.
\end{itemize}
\clearpage

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Additional Rules}}
\hommtablemulticol[]{22}{
  \centering
  \medskip

>   \textbf{Difficutly Settings}\\

Reviewer 2: Normally, tables with difficulty settings are at the end of the scenario, so as not to disrupt the flow of text. How about making all the rulings separate sections? Firstly, timed event fights, as they are the most important. Then, additional rules, and finally, difficulty table and map layout. What do you think?

<img width="1241" height="1754" alt="the_ambushed_accord-02" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3e74b3ea-d29c-4897-af5e-0eb818b6d497" />

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Timed Events}}
\textbf{\nth{2} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item Build either Camp (\svg{building_special_tent}) or Workshop (gears) for free. %(\svg{bulding_special_gears})
\end{itemize}
End of \textbf{\nth{4} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item \textbf{one player} must fight a \textbf{Timed Event Fight} of 5 × \svg{bronze}.
\end{itemize}
End of \textbf{\nth{8} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item \textbf{one player} must fight a \textbf{Timed Event Fight} of 4 × \svg{silver}
\end{itemize}
End of \textbf{\nth{10} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item \textbf{one player} must fight a \textbf{Timed Event Fight} of 3 × \svg{golden}.
\end{itemize}
End of \textbf{\nth{12} Round:}
\begin{itemize}
  \item \textbf{one player} must fight a \textbf{Timed Event Fight} of 2 × \svg{azure}.
\end{itemize}
\clearpage

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Additional Rules}}
\hommtablemulticol[]{21}{
	\centering
	\medskip
	\textbf{Difficutly Settings}\\
	\bigskip
	
	\begin{tabularx}{0.93\linewidth}{p{0.28\linewidth}X}
		\darkcell[1.6]{Difficulty} & \darkcell[1.6]{Changes to Timed Event Fights} \\
		\darkcell[1.6]{Easy}
		& \lightcell[1.6]{Remove a random unit from each fight.} \\

> 		\darkcell[2.2]{Hard}

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't skip normal, as its absence is confusing. It's better to have an explicit "No changes" row.

  \item Collaboratively pay $P$~×~5~\svg{gold}, $P$~×~3~\svg{building_materials} and $P$~×~\svg{valuables} to reveal the Center Map Tile ($P$ stands for the number of players), e.g., 4 players must pay 20~\svg{gold}, 12~\svg{building_materials}, and 4~\svg{valuables}.
  \item At the end of every Astrologers Round, players must decide which player gets a free \svg{morale_positive} Token.
  \item Players may exchange Artifacts and Spells from their hands, as well as Units and Resources, if their Main Heroes are standing on adjacent Fields or if both Heroes are in their own Towns.

>   \item Once a player defeats the Level VII Army, their Heroes are removed from the Map.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  \item Once a player defeats the Level VII Neutral Army, their Heroes are removed from the Map.
```
